Just like you would with any application,
it's best to consider all parts of a serverless
application before you begin development.
I wanted to share the way that I approach most of my serverless
projects and hope that you may find it useful in your own.
I like to map out all the resources that my application would
likely need in a visual diagram before I code.
This helps me envision the lifecycle of my application and
consider how things work holistically.
To start the exercise,
I usually begin by making decisions in the four major
pillars found in most web applications.
The first pillar is computing.
Most of the time you'll need computing, but you may not.
If you have an application that is basically static
and just relies on flat files, you wouldn't really need a computing aspect.
If you do have computing, they'll be separated into separate functions.
So, you should identify them as such in your architecture diagram.
You may not have enough information at this early stage,
but I try to sketch out as much as I know at the time.
The next pillar is storage.
Here, I identify what S3 buckets, if any, I'll need.
I try to be liberal with how many buckets I have so I'm not
constraining my design or mixing up files unnecessarily.
The next pillar is persistence.
This could be either databases and/or caching.
Caching often comes later in the development lifecycle as
you identify hotspots in your application.
So, I wouldn't be too worried if you don't know where it would fit yet.
Many applications that have user interaction require at least a database.
So, here's a good place where you can decide whether to go with NoSQL or SQL.
One consideration here.
DynamoDB has an API for reading and writing records,
making it really simple to use with Lambda.
All of the database engines in RDS require a connection to be
made before any operations can be executed.
So,
you may want to keep that in mind as the additional overhead for creating
connections should be factored into your compute execution time.
AWS has recently released a new service called RDS Proxy,
which mitigates this new connection process by acting as a proxy and
maintaining persistent connections to your database for you.
Although there is additional costs associated with the service,
it should drastically reduce much of the overhead
involved with using RDS and Lambda.
The final pillar is what I call eventing.
This is sort of like the glue between all the pieces.
For web applications,
you'll often be needing an API layer or at least some way to access the
application from a URL in which case you'd use API Gateway.
You may also use Kinesis or Simple Queue Service to communicate between lambdas.
Of course, you can also invoke lambdas directly,
but the cost of making that call and the lambda should be considered.
If your main communication pattern is directly invoking other lambdas,
you may find yourself telescoping through functions and incurring
greater and greater costs for the earliest invocations.
It's good better to decouple your compute functions as much
as possible by using a messaging layer.
By going through these pillars,
you should have a rough outline of what type of app you'll be building,
and you can get to work quickly.
Later considerations for your architecture would look at Route 53
for routing or CloudFront for asset delivery. These can be added to your diagram later, once you've determined their need.